Before we go straight into developing our first and blind to that we will return just pure data using
Jason format.
It's important to know the standard tool that is used in industry these days for testing your API saw
for sanding x h are requests to your application.
And this is called postman so postman started as a Chrome extension.
But from some years it's now a standalone application so you can go to the get postman dot com slash
products and grab your postman right now.
So you just press that download the app install it and just have it started.
So do that now and after you have you are done with this let's open postman and explain how it works
and what features does it offer to you.
Well I hope that by now you have downloaded postman and have it running.
So this is how the main interface of postman looks like the first thing you would like to do is to create
a separate workspace for our application.
This will help us keep some things separate.
So we'll have some specific requests that we are making.
And in case you have couple applications that you are testing with postman then it's definitely makes
sense to create a separate workspace for every one of them so choose our type personnel and call it.
Laura will that test create a workspace and this will open a new tab so you can make your first request.
And also here on the left you have a history.
This will list all the requests that you have made.
So let's make a first one.
So make sure your app is running the Apache server and database.
And let's try Laura Bell dot test.
So here you will always type that your URL you would like to make a request to and on the left.
You can select what type of request that that would be.
So this is HDP verb.
So we'll get a main page of our app using get and here you can press Send to immediately get response
so you also have some additional options here.
You can save this request we'll get to that in a second.
Now let's take a look at how the request making looks like.
So first you have some tabs where you can send or specify some parameters.
So those would be query parameters.
For example you can specify a page with a value so you will edit this right here.
You can also enable or disable some parameters then you can specify some authorization rules.
So we'll get to that later but it offers every possible outer authorization you can have in your application.
Of course don't worry about it right now.
Then you can specify headers that you would like to send with your request.
Then there is body of course body only makes sense when you sent boot or post requests.
You'll never send a body with a get a request but for example if you would like to send some Jason you
will choose ro
on this list you will specify the type of this request.
So if you choose application Jason then you will have to provide some valid Jason in here.
Of course it's also good for testing forms.
So if you will select form data you are able to send forms to end points that actually accept and handle
forms and other key you will define our field name and of course value on the right.
Now let's get to this part that starts out actually at this point and this is the response.
So you can see that we have actually made one get request so let's send it again and this is our response.
So response body you can see that this is an H the email and postman even highlights this as a code.
You can also click this row button to see how the real response looked like.
So that's not really readable but it's sometimes useful and the very interesting thing is that Preview
button which lets you see what was actually returned from the server in this case.
That's an H e-mail page without styles of course but this is just pure HDL.
Now on this stub you can see all the cookies that were sent back from the server and actually a lot
of this is not an empty API end point.
This is our traditional web page.
So Lavell is setting some cookies one of them is the larval session and then there is ICS as RF token
which is used for protection against ICS as ref attacks.
When you sent forms so you can always check that out easily what cookies were stored on each request
and then there is this header stop which you can see what age DDP headers were returned together with
the request.
So this was our request part.
Now you can see that here on the left we got some requests so you can click each one of them and send
them again.
So this is a very useful feature.
Now let's go back to this main interface where we have our request and interesting thing might be this
code button.
So if you will click it you can see how you can make this request using a different tool for example.
This is Siu URL so if you are on Mark on Unix you can just paste it to your command line and this will
make our request.
But also there are other tools for other languages which lets you generate the code to make the same
request that you have just made using a postman a very useful feature.
So for example you can generate code for P2P using Siu url
and you can make an exchange.
Are requests using JavaScript of course.
Well we won't be really using that.
We'll be using our specific library to make those ICS H R requests but just so you know it's a very
useful feature of postman.
Now you can see that every request that I made can be opened in a separate tab.
So maybe let's make another one so we know that we have these posts.
Your URL and we can open up post number one and this displays some contents of this blog post.
Now another very useful feature of postman is that when you make different kind of requests to test
different things you might be using collections.
So let's go ahead and create our first collection right now which would be of course created only for
this workspace.
So create one now and web.
Call it web pages so you can ignore the description for now.
OK.
Now you have a first collection.
So what you can do right now is you can save a request and maybe call it home page you can order the
description.
But here you will add it to the web pages collection so press save to web pages.
Now we have this another request for getting a blog post.
You can also save it.
So let's save it and call it request name would be block post.
No one safe to web pages and now those requests have a name.
So if you close them and you'd like to make some requests again.
Now when you will click this collection you can make those requests again very easily.
So this will not only keep your elves but it will also keep all the parameters.
So imagine you will have a page parameter so if you will save changes to this close to requests.
Now you can reopen home page and it will keep every data that you had before.
So all the parameters all the authorization data and all the headers that you would like to send.
Now by the way it's interesting that if you would like to specify a body and you will set this as Jason
application Jason postman is smart enough to add this header for you the content type which of course
has to be application.
Jason if you are saying sending any Jason to the back end.
No of course using postman to test your web pages and read the H.
The email generated is not a very useful.
It's mostly useful if you are actually interacting with employees that return data.
For example the Jason data so you can close this request right now.
Save the changes so it will keep every data that you have provided like palms and they'll let us create
a new collection and call it API.
So of course we do not have an end point right now which would provide us some Jason data.
So let's go ahead and quickly create one.
This should be very straightforward
So first we'll go to the Web BHP to create a new route let's say in post command controller.
So we'll add an index action here.
And now let's open post comment controller and we'll return a list of comments for a blog post.
So create a new action public function index and this will accept blog post so mind that we are using
the route model binding and returning some Jason is actually extremely easy in of.
So let's see what we'll do.
So this is just post comments and that's it.
So of course I will explain that in detail in the next lectures how that even works and gets converted
to Jason automatically.
So please don't worry about this right now.
Just save the changes so we can test that out.
Now let's create our new request and this will be actually tipping a lot of all that test posts slash
one slash comments and this is a new end point that we have just created.
It's using that and get verb and let's try to send this request and voila.
What you can see here right here right now is the actual Jason that was returned and it contains all
the comments of this particular blog post.
Of course if you have some data for a blog post number one if you didn't make sure you have run their
BHP artisan D.B. seed command which would generate some data for you
not what you can see here is that all the comment models that are part of this blog post.
Number one are being serialized Jason.
So you have all the properties of these models including I.D. dates but also some properties that maybe
you wouldn't like to show to a user like commendable type and commendable I.D..
So we also work on that so we can understand how you can specify which properties should be serialized
by default.
To Jason and to our race.
I'll get that.
I'll get to that in a second so don't really worry about this right now.
But what you can do is you can save this request so go back to the main view of the collections and
API ice and call this request block post one comments click save to API and now you have another request
stored.
So now when you will close that you will open the post.
Remember to always select this workspace.
It should be selected by default.
If you have last to use that but if you have some different workspaces for testing different apps you
can easily switch between them and this will keep a separate list of history separate collections.
And it will remember different requests so it will reopen your last Topps here.
Now you can make this request very easily by just clicking here and pressing send to see if your API
works what data it returns and all things like that.
Now the last interesting thing that you might know right now is that you can actually export this data.
So if you will press this button you have some options for exporting a collection.
So if you press export select the collection to point one or the recommended version as the most recent
one this will store a file in adjacent that everyone else from your team your colleagues they can then
import that directly into their post man and they can make all these requests that you are making.
So this is a very useful tool for testing APIs and then sharing those files with your friends or teammates
so they can also do the same.
So when your colleague would like to import some data that you have stored in postmen that will just
press import and choose device here or just drop them to this window and they will automatically have
all those collections that you have.
So this lecture was only about the basics of using postman.
Of course it's much more complicated.
It has a lot of interesting features that are not really in the scope of this course like writing tests
or creating a mock servers which basically allows you to test an API that doesn't exist yet but actually
we are implementing the API so that's not useful in this course.
But generally I invite you to learn more about love about sorry about postman and all its features because
it's really a great tool.
So of course don't worry about this API point right now.
We've just created it to show use their features of postman but then in the next lectures will actually
get to that how this works that we get adjacent returned by simply returning our collection in lava
and also how we can hide all these properties that we do not want to show.
Back to the users and of course we'll also learn about more advanced ways and things that you will have
to know to create API is in lot of them including some outer ization and then creating our specific
views of your models that well you can use in different end points but we'll get to that in the next
lecture.
So that's enough for this lecture.
See you in the next one.